# Dissertation
This repository is Dedicated to the Master's Thesis in the Univercity of Piraeus department of informatics 

In this Dissertation, we introduce an android application and it’s stack (back-end and database). This app, can perform auto check-in and save the location of the user in a database. Also, it can display the location that has been saved in a Calendar and on Google Map.
The technologies that has been selected for the back-end platform are node.js and mongodb. This is a perfect much for this application because all the back – end platform uses the same programming language, JavaScript. In addition, this stack is very popular for creating the back – end API for android or in general in mobile applications and web applications, because it uses JSON format that is very easy to be parsed from the client. 
In order the app could work via the internet, the platform of Okeanos has been used, which gave us the opportunity to have this back – end API accessible from the internet. Okeanos is a GRNET's cloud service, for the Greek Research and Academic Community. For this dissertation a virtual Machine of Windows Server 2012 has been used.
This thesis is divided in 2 parts, Theoretical part, where the technologies is being explained, UMLs are shown, some pieces of code are being introduced and bibliography. The second part of the application is the implementation of android code and of the back-end code.
Likewise, the theoretical part is divided in 3 parts. The part of Front end, where the application of the android is explained, the part of web services, where it gives the possibility for android application and the database to communicate and finally, the third part, the mongodb database. In each piece the architecture and the bibliography are being analyzed.
The second component of this thesis, is the piece of code, where it is being displayed the most important code. Moreover, UML diagrams are used. Finally, as last part of this document, is bibliography. Bibliography is style of IEEE.
Not only this thesis awards the Master’s degree of Computer Science of the University of Piraeus, but also we hope that it could be a good reference for someone who wants to use android Locations, node.js, mongodb and their combination.
